now we're going to look at the loin this
is traditionally the part of the pig
where we get all of the chops from but
nowadays there are other things that we
can do with it my preference is reduce a
nice rib chop with the rib bone in so
cut between the rib bones clean-cut so
that's our rib chop it's not beautiful
this is the end where we've got our
lumber vertebra and we can produce a
t-bone steak from this end we'll cut
like I am through the cartilage discs of
the vertebra gently saw just through the
bone and that gives us our beautiful
t-bone shot then we go on to the
alternatives and first of all I'm going
to remove the Phillip joint I'm using a
point of the knife and cutting very
close to the backbone strip the fill it
away really is a superb piece of meat
very versatile not everybody wants the
level of fat that we've got on these
chops so I'm going to just reduce that
slightly by cutting between the natural
seam of the back fat I don't want to cut
into the lean cutting very carefully
down the seam between the two layers of
fat yeah
I'm now going to take the bones out and
I'm using a sheet butchery technique
which is to cut fairly close to the
bones but I'm not worried if I leave a
little piece of meat on those bones
because they will actually be baby back
ribs or smaller spareribs it really is a
matter of just staying very close to the
bones at this stage what we do a later
stage is make a cut down long through
the joints of those bones and then that
section there would be our baby back
ribs so we'll put that to one side now
we've got a piece of meat which is going
to make some superb steaks first of all
that's a couple of nice little snakes
that's our rib end then we can come to
the other end we've got our loin steak
some people call in pork sirloin steaks
the alternative is for that really
special occasion to cut itself a nice
Valentine steak and that's done by using
a butterfly cutting technique and that's
to take the knife and then to cut almost
through but not quite we've got another
one and then we open them up and you can
see that you have
beautiful heart-shaped steak which is
really suitable for very special
occasion and then we could produce a
knife law in joint roasting they've put
Blaster cated ties so that when you come
to roast it you know that you're going
to get nice slices for everybody that's
set down to that meal okay oh look at
this and then so let's make two mini
roasting drinks and sometimes people
would take a little piece of the rind
and fat that we took off earlier that
can go back on people who like piece of
crap pain so you can see how versatile
the loin is from a number of cut steaks
and joints that we produce fiber
we've got our bonus mini roasting joints
one without line one with rind design
for those who want to roast meal within
35 to 40 minutes
a traditional bonus Rose u-joint from
the loin ideal for that large family
occasion we've got our Valentine's
states which are two loin steaks in one
produced by using a butterfly cutting
technique loin steak which is equivalent
to a t-bone steak boneless loin states
that have had the rind and excess fat
trimmed from them the Phillip muscle
which we've used to produce the three
medallions but our bone-in rib chop
which we've left the riding some of the
fat one and then boneless rib chops
ideal grilling and flying barbecue